All right so let's go ahead and do a couple of exercises using second derivatives.
So this says find f double prime of x.
So the second derivative if f of x equals x cute.
That's a pretty simple one and you should be able to get it with no problem.
So go ahead and pause the video and give it a shot.
All right.
So let's go ahead and do it together.
So of course we're finding the second derivative.
The first thing that we need to do is to find the first derivative.
Right so let's apply our mnemonic.
We bring our dictator down.
That's.
Three then x.
By a less powerful leader.
That gives us a two on top.
So now that we have the first derivative we need to get the derivative of this first derivative to get
the second derivative.
So the second derivative will be
the derivative of 3 x squared.
So we have a constant multiple.
So we put it on the side we bring down a dictator which is a two X and less powerful leader is a 1.
But we don't market.
So it's three times two x equals 6 x.
And this is it 6 x is our second derivative for f of x equals execute.
We are done.
All right.
So here we have our second example for second derivatives.
It says Find have doubled prime of X if f of x equals x to the fourth minus for execute plus 10 x squared
minus 7 next plus a thousand and one.
So go ahead and pause the video and give it a shot.
All right.
So let's go ahead and do this one together.
This one is a little bit longer than the other one but same concept.
First we're going to find the first derivative.
So the big picture is that we have a bunch of terms and they're separated by plus and minuses.
So remember what we do is we grab the derivative of each term and we keep the sign.
That's pretty much it.
So let's start with x to the fourth derivative of x to the fourth.
We bring down a dictator and X substitute by a less powerful leader.
So that's a three mynahs derivative of four executes.
So we have a constant multiple of four brings on our dictator which is a 3 X and less powerful leader
is a 2.
Moving on we have plus constant multiple here so that's 10.
And we bring down a dictator which is a 2 x less powerful leader is a 1.
So we don't market minus constant multiple here seven times.
And then we bring down a dictator for the ax which is just one and less powerful leader which is a zero.
And then plus the derivative of a constant which is zero.
So let's simplify this one here.
So we have four execute that one doesn't change.
Mine is four times three is 12.
X squared.
Plus 10 times to is Taurani X minus.
Remember that one times X to 0 is 1 right.
This whole thing is one because X to the zero is one.
In other words anything to the zero power is one.
So we have 1 times 1 and then we have seven times as this.
But this is one.
So seven times one is just seven.
All right.
And we forget about the 0 because it doesn't do anything.
This is our first derivative to get the second derivative which is get the derivative of this first
row of it of.
All right.
So let's get the derivative for x cubed.
So a constant multiple of four.
We put it on the side.
We bring our dictator down which is 3 x less powerful leader is a two minus constant multiple of 12
times.
We bring down a dictator which is a two X and we don't mark the exponent because it's a 1 plus constant
multiple which is 20.
We bring down a dictator on the X..
So that's 1 times X less powerful leader to the 0 minus the derivative of a constant which is zero.
And let's go ahead and simplify once more
so four times three is 12 x squared.
Mine is 12 times 2 is 24 x plus.
And here remember that X to 0 is 1 1 times 1 is 1 and 20 times one is 20.
All right so this whole thing is one.
So plus 20.
And at this point we are done.
This right here is our second derivative of the prime of X equals 12 x squared minus 24 x plus 20.
That is our final answer.
So like I said this problem was a little bit longer than the other one but the concept is the same to
find the second derivative of f of x we find the first derivative and then we get the derivative of
that first derivative which gives us our second derivative.